llm_integration_status.md, before:

# LLM Integration Implementation Status

This document tracks the implementation status of the LLM integration for Sequence Maker, based on the original plan.

## Implemented Components

1. ✅ **LLM Service Layer**
   - Enhanced `LLMManager` with support for multiple providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Local)
   - Added token usage tracking
   - Added interruption support

2. ✅ **Application Data Interface**
   - Created `AppContextAPI` class to expose app state data
   - Implemented methods to access project, timeline, audio, and lyrics data

3. ✅ **LLM Action Interface (API)**
   - Created `TimelineActionAPI` for timeline manipulation
   - Created `AudioActionAPI` for audio playback control
   - Implemented action handling in `LLMManager`

4. ✅ **User Confirmation Modes**
   - Added confirmation mode selection in `LLMChatDialog`
   - Implemented confirmation logic in action handling

5. ✅ **Settings Integration**
   - Updated `SettingsDialog` with LLM settings tab
   - Added provider selection, API key configuration, model selection, etc.

6. ✅ **Chat History Persistence**
   - Updated `Project` model to store chat history
   - Implemented methods to save and load chat history

7. ✅ **UI Responsiveness and User Interruption**
   - Added stop button to `LLMChatDialog`
   - Implemented interruption handling in `LLMManager`

8. ✅ **Token and Cost Management**
   - Added token usage tracking in `LLMManager`
   - Added token usage display in `LLMChatDialog`

## Components Requiring Further Implementation

1. ✅ **Floating LLM Chat Window**
   - Implemented a floating, non-modal window that can remain open while using the application
   - Created `LLMChatWindow` class that inherits from `QWidget` instead of `QDialog`
   - Updated `MainWindow` to manage the floating window lifecycle
   - Added minimize functionality to allow users to hide/show the window as needed

2. ✅ **Autosave & Version Control**
   - Implemented automatic project state saves before and after LLM operations
   - Implemented version history view for easy rollback
   - Added `AutosaveManager` class to handle automatic project state saves
   - Added version history tracking to `ProjectManager`
   - Created UI for browsing and restoring previous versions

3. ✅ **Error Handling and Ambiguity Resolution**
   - Implemented ambiguity detection in LLM responses
   - Added `AmbiguityResolutionDialog` for user clarification
   - Integrated with `LLMChatDialog` for seamless user experience
   - Added comprehensive tests for ambiguity handling

4. ✅ **Audio Analysis Integration**
   - Enhanced `AudioManager` with advanced audio analysis methods
   - Added extraction of musical features (onset strength, spectral contrast, etc.)
   - Made analysis data available to the LLM via `AppContextAPI`
   - Enhanced system messages to include audio analysis data
   - Added tests for audio analysis functionality

## Next Steps (Implementation Priority)

1. ✅ **Enhanced Logging and Diagnostics**
   - ✅ Implemented more detailed logging for LLM operations
   - ✅ Added performance metrics tracking
   - ✅ Created diagnostic tools for troubleshooting
   - ✅ Improved error handling and reporting

2. **Function Calling Integration**
   - Implement OpenAI function calling for more structured interactions
   - Create function schemas for common operations
   - Add support for streaming responses
   - Enhance the UI to display structured responses

2. **Function Calling Integration**
   - Implement OpenAI function calling for more structured interactions
   - Create function schemas for common operations
   - Add support for streaming responses

3. **User Customization**
   - Allow users to define custom instructions for the LLM
   - Add support for saving and loading LLM presets
   - Implement user-defined templates for common tasks

## Implementation Details for Next Steps

### 1. Autosave & Version Control

```python
# Create AutosaveManager class
class AutosaveManager:
    def __init__(self, app):
        self.app = app
        self.logger = logging.getLogger("SequenceMaker.AutosaveManager")
        self.max_versions = app.config.get("general", "max_autosave_files")
        
    def save_version(self, reason="LLM Operation"):
        """Save a version of the current project."""
        if not self.app.project_manager.current_project:
            return
            
        # Generate timestamp
        timestamp = datetime.now().strftime("%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S")
        
        # Create version name
        version_name = f"{reason} {timestamp}"
        
        # Save project state
        self.app.project_manager.save_version(version_name)
        
        # Prune old versions if needed
        self._prune_old_versions()
        
    def _prune_old_versions(self):
        """Remove old versions if max_versions is exceeded."""
        versions = self.app.project_manager.get_versions()
        if len(versions) > self.max_versions:
            # Remove oldest versions
            versions_to_remove = versions[:-self.max_versions]
            for version in versions_to_remove:
                self.app.project_manager.remove_version(version)
```

### 2. Enhanced Error Handling

```python
# Add to LLMManager
def _handle_ambiguity(self, prompt, response):
    """Handle ambiguous instructions."""
    # Check for ambiguity markers in response
    if "ambiguous" in response.lower() or "unclear" in response.lower():
        # Log ambiguity
        self.logger.warning(f"Ambiguous instruction: {prompt}")
        
        # Extract suggestions from response
        suggestions = self._extract_suggestions(response)
        
        # Emit ambiguity signal
        self.llm_ambiguity.emit(prompt, suggestions)
        
        return True
    
    return False
```

### 3. Audio Analysis Integration (COMPLETED)

```python
# Added to AudioManager
def analyze_audio(self):
    """Analyze audio file to extract advanced musical features."""
    if not AUDIO_AVAILABLE or self.audio_data is None:
        return
        
    try:
        self.logger.info("Performing enhanced audio analysis...")
        
        # Extract tempo (already done in _analyze_audio, but we'll ensure it's available)
        if self.tempo is None and self.audio_data is not None:
            tempo, beat_frames = librosa.beat.beat_track(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
            self.tempo = tempo
            self.beat_times = librosa.frames_to_time(beat_frames, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract onset strength (already done in _analyze_audio as self.beats, but we'll store it separately)
        self.onset_strength = librosa.onset.onset_strength(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract spectral contrast (measure of the difference between peaks and valleys in the spectrum)
        self.spectral_contrast = librosa.feature.spectral_contrast(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract spectral centroid (indicates where the "center of mass" of the spectrum is)
        self.spectral_centroid = librosa.feature.spectral_centroid(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)[0]
        
        # Extract spectral rolloff (frequency below which 85% of the spectral energy is contained)
        self.spectral_rolloff = librosa.feature.spectral_rolloff(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)[0]
        
        # Extract chroma features (representation of the 12 different pitch classes)
        self.chroma = librosa.feature.chroma_stft(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract RMS energy (volume over time)
        self.rms_energy = librosa.feature.rms(y=self.audio_data)[0]
        
        # Extract zero crossing rate (useful for distinguishing voiced from unvoiced speech)
        self.zero_crossing_rate = librosa.feature.zero_crossing_rate(self.audio_data)[0]
        
        self.logger.info("Enhanced audio analysis completed")
        
        # Emit signal
        self.audio_analyzed.emit()
        
    except Exception as e:
        self.logger.error(f"Error performing enhanced audio analysis: {e}")

# Enhanced AppContextAPI.get_audio_context() to include analysis data
def get_audio_context(self):
    """Get audio context data."""
    context = {}
    
    if self.app.audio_manager.audio_file:
        context["file"] = os.path.basename(self.app.audio_manager.audio_file)
        context["duration"] = self.app.audio_manager.duration
        context["tempo"] = self.app.audio_manager.tempo
        
        # Add beat times
        if self.app.audio_manager.beat_times is not None:
            context["beat_times"] = self.app.audio_manager.beat_times.tolist()
        
        # Add onset strength
        if hasattr(self.app.audio_manager, "onset_strength"):
            context["onset_strength"] = self.app.audio_manager.onset_strength.tolist()
        
        # Add spectral contrast
        if hasattr(self.app.audio_manager, "spectral_contrast"):
            context["spectral_contrast"] = self.app.audio_manager.spectral_contrast.tolist()
            
        # Add other analysis features...
    
    return context
```

### 4. Floating Chat Window

```python
# Convert LLMChatDialog from QDialog to QWidget
class LLMChatWindow(QWidget):
    def __init__(self, app, parent=None):
        super().__init__(parent)
        
        # Set window flags
        self.setWindowFlags(Qt.WindowType.Window | Qt.WindowType.Tool)
        
        # Set window properties
        self.setWindowTitle("LLM Chat")
        self.setMinimumWidth(400)
        self.setMinimumHeight(300)
        
        # Create UI
        self._create_ui()
        
        # Rest of implementation...

Commit message:

llm integration function calling implemented

llm_integration_status.md, after:

# LLM Integration Implementation Status

This document tracks the implementation status of the LLM integration for Sequence Maker, based on the original plan.

## Implemented Components

1. ✅ **LLM Service Layer**
   - Enhanced `LLMManager` with support for multiple providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Local)
   - Added token usage tracking
   - Added interruption support

2. ✅ **Application Data Interface**
   - Created `AppContextAPI` class to expose app state data
   - Implemented methods to access project, timeline, audio, and lyrics data

3. ✅ **LLM Action Interface (API)**
   - Created `TimelineActionAPI` for timeline manipulation
   - Created `AudioActionAPI` for audio playback control
   - Implemented action handling in `LLMManager`

4. ✅ **User Confirmation Modes**
   - Added confirmation mode selection in `LLMChatDialog`
   - Implemented confirmation logic in action handling

5. ✅ **Settings Integration**
   - Updated `SettingsDialog` with LLM settings tab
   - Added provider selection, API key configuration, model selection, etc.

6. ✅ **Chat History Persistence**
   - Updated `Project` model to store chat history
   - Implemented methods to save and load chat history

7. ✅ **UI Responsiveness and User Interruption**
   - Added stop button to `LLMChatDialog`
   - Implemented interruption handling in `LLMManager`

8. ✅ **Token and Cost Management**
   - Added token usage tracking in `LLMManager`
   - Added token usage display in `LLMChatDialog`

## Components Requiring Further Implementation

1. ✅ **Floating LLM Chat Window**
   - Implemented a floating, non-modal window that can remain open while using the application
   - Created `LLMChatWindow` class that inherits from `QWidget` instead of `QDialog`
   - Updated `MainWindow` to manage the floating window lifecycle
   - Added minimize functionality to allow users to hide/show the window as needed

2. ✅ **Autosave & Version Control**
   - Implemented automatic project state saves before and after LLM operations
   - Implemented version history view for easy rollback
   - Added `AutosaveManager` class to handle automatic project state saves
   - Added version history tracking to `ProjectManager`
   - Created UI for browsing and restoring previous versions

3. ✅ **Error Handling and Ambiguity Resolution**
   - Implemented ambiguity detection in LLM responses
   - Added `AmbiguityResolutionDialog` for user clarification
   - Integrated with `LLMChatDialog` for seamless user experience
   - Added comprehensive tests for ambiguity handling

4. ✅ **Audio Analysis Integration**
   - Enhanced `AudioManager` with advanced audio analysis methods
   - Added extraction of musical features (onset strength, spectral contrast, etc.)
   - Made analysis data available to the LLM via `AppContextAPI`
   - Enhanced system messages to include audio analysis data
   - Added tests for audio analysis functionality

## Next Steps (Implementation Priority)

1. ✅ **Enhanced Logging and Diagnostics**
   - ✅ Implemented more detailed logging for LLM operations
   - ✅ Added performance metrics tracking
   - ✅ Created diagnostic tools for troubleshooting
   - ✅ Improved error handling and reporting

2. ✅ **Function Calling Integration**
   - ✅ Implemented OpenAI function calling for more structured interactions
   - ✅ Created function schemas for timeline and audio operations
   - ✅ Added support for streaming responses
   - ✅ Enhanced the UI to display structured responses
   - ✅ Added LLM diagnostics dialog for performance monitoring

3. **User Customization**
   - Allow users to define custom instructions for the LLM
   - Add support for saving and loading LLM presets
   - Implement user-defined templates for common tasks

## Implementation Details for Next Steps

### 1. Autosave & Version Control

```python
# Create AutosaveManager class
class AutosaveManager:
    def __init__(self, app):
        self.app = app
        self.logger = logging.getLogger("SequenceMaker.AutosaveManager")
        self.max_versions = app.config.get("general", "max_autosave_files")
        
    def save_version(self, reason="LLM Operation"):
        """Save a version of the current project."""
        if not self.app.project_manager.current_project:
            return
            
        # Generate timestamp
        timestamp = datetime.now().strftime("%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S")
        
        # Create version name
        version_name = f"{reason} {timestamp}"
        
        # Save project state
        self.app.project_manager.save_version(version_name)
        
        # Prune old versions if needed
        self._prune_old_versions()
        
    def _prune_old_versions(self):
        """Remove old versions if max_versions is exceeded."""
        versions = self.app.project_manager.get_versions()
        if len(versions) > self.max_versions:
            # Remove oldest versions
            versions_to_remove = versions[:-self.max_versions]
            for version in versions_to_remove:
                self.app.project_manager.remove_version(version)
```

### 2. Enhanced Error Handling

```python
# Add to LLMManager
def _handle_ambiguity(self, prompt, response):
    """Handle ambiguous instructions."""
    # Check for ambiguity markers in response
    if "ambiguous" in response.lower() or "unclear" in response.lower():
        # Log ambiguity
        self.logger.warning(f"Ambiguous instruction: {prompt}")
        
        # Extract suggestions from response
        suggestions = self._extract_suggestions(response)
        
        # Emit ambiguity signal
        self.llm_ambiguity.emit(prompt, suggestions)
        
        return True
    
    return False
```

### 3. Audio Analysis Integration (COMPLETED)

```python
# Added to AudioManager
def analyze_audio(self):
    """Analyze audio file to extract advanced musical features."""
    if not AUDIO_AVAILABLE or self.audio_data is None:
        return
        
    try:
        self.logger.info("Performing enhanced audio analysis...")
        
        # Extract tempo (already done in _analyze_audio, but we'll ensure it's available)
        if self.tempo is None and self.audio_data is not None:
            tempo, beat_frames = librosa.beat.beat_track(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
            self.tempo = tempo
            self.beat_times = librosa.frames_to_time(beat_frames, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract onset strength (already done in _analyze_audio as self.beats, but we'll store it separately)
        self.onset_strength = librosa.onset.onset_strength(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract spectral contrast (measure of the difference between peaks and valleys in the spectrum)
        self.spectral_contrast = librosa.feature.spectral_contrast(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract spectral centroid (indicates where the "center of mass" of the spectrum is)
        self.spectral_centroid = librosa.feature.spectral_centroid(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)[0]
        
        # Extract spectral rolloff (frequency below which 85% of the spectral energy is contained)
        self.spectral_rolloff = librosa.feature.spectral_rolloff(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)[0]
        
        # Extract chroma features (representation of the 12 different pitch classes)
        self.chroma = librosa.feature.chroma_stft(y=self.audio_data, sr=self.sample_rate)
        
        # Extract RMS energy (volume over time)
        self.rms_energy = librosa.feature.rms(y=self.audio_data)[0]
        
        # Extract zero crossing rate (useful for distinguishing voiced from unvoiced speech)
        self.zero_crossing_rate = librosa.feature.zero_crossing_rate(self.audio_data)[0]
        
        self.logger.info("Enhanced audio analysis completed")
        
        # Emit signal
        self.audio_analyzed.emit()
        
    except Exception as e:
        self.logger.error(f"Error performing enhanced audio analysis: {e}")

# Enhanced AppContextAPI.get_audio_context() to include analysis data
def get_audio_context(self):
    """Get audio context data."""
    context = {}
    
    if self.app.audio_manager.audio_file:
        context["file"] = os.path.basename(self.app.audio_manager.audio_file)
        context["duration"] = self.app.audio_manager.duration
        context["tempo"] = self.app.audio_manager.tempo
        
        # Add beat times
        if self.app.audio_manager.beat_times is not None:
            context["beat_times"] = self.app.audio_manager.beat_times.tolist()
        
        # Add onset strength
        if hasattr(self.app.audio_manager, "onset_strength"):
            context["onset_strength"] = self.app.audio_manager.onset_strength.tolist()
        
        # Add spectral contrast
        if hasattr(self.app.audio_manager, "spectral_contrast"):
            context["spectral_contrast"] = self.app.audio_manager.spectral_contrast.tolist()
            
        # Add other analysis features...
    
    return context
```

### 4. Floating Chat Window

```python
# Convert LLMChatDialog from QDialog to QWidget
class LLMChatWindow(QWidget):
    def __init__(self, app, parent=None):
        super().__init__(parent)
        
        # Set window flags
        self.setWindowFlags(Qt.WindowType.Window | Qt.WindowType.Tool)
        
        # Set window properties
        self.setWindowTitle("LLM Chat")
        self.setMinimumWidth(400)
        self.setMinimumHeight(300)
        
        # Create UI
        self._create_ui()
        
        # Rest of implementation...
